enterprise/lifecycle: implement Object Lifecycle Management (#20015)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/sys-mgmt/object-lifecycle-management.md

---
title: Object Lifecycle Management
sidebar_label: Object Lifecycle Management
authentik_enterprise: true
authentik_version: "2026.2.0"
authentik_preview: true
---

Organizations implementing periodic reviews of their authentication settings for groups, roles, and applications can configure authentik to automatically schedule and track such reviews, as well as notify the reviewers. This set of functionality is collectively referred to as Object Lifecycle Management.

## Lifecycle rules

You can configure the behavior of reviews for specific object types (currently Applications, Groups, and Roles) or individual objects on the **Events** > **Lifecycle Rules** page.

Lifecycle rules define how often reviews are scheduled, the time before a review goes overdue, who needs to approve a review, and how they are notified.

### Rule scope

A lifecycle rule can be scoped to:

- **A specific object**: The rule applies only to that individual Application, Group, or Role.

> - **An entire object type**: The rule applies to all objects of that type that don't have their own specific rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **An entire object type**: The rule applies to all objects of that type that don't have their own specific rule, e.g., all applications.
```

| **Minimum reviewers**              | The minimum number of reviews required from members of any reviewing group.                                                                   |
| **Minimum reviewers is per group** | When enabled, the minimum number of reviewers is required from each reviewer group separately. When disabled, it's a total across all groups. |
| **Explicit reviewers**             | Individual users who must all submit a review, in addition to the reviewer groups requirement.                                                |
| **Notification transports**        | How reviewers are notified about pending, overdue, and completed reviews.                                                                     |

### Reviewer requirements

An object's review is considered complete when all of the following conditions are met:

1. All explicit reviewers have submitted their reviews.
2. The minimum number of reviews from reviewer group members has been reached (either per group or in total, depending on the setting).

For example, if a rule has:

- Two explicit reviewers (Alice and Bob)
- Two reviewer groups (Security Team and Compliance Team)

> - **Min** reviewers set to 2

Author: They are actually called "Min reviewers" and "Min reviewers is per group" in the UI so I updated the table on L36-37 to refer to them correctly.

- **Min reviewers** is set to 2
- **Min reviewers is per-group** is enabled

Then the review requires approval from: Alice, Bob, at least 2 members of the Security Team, and at least 2 members of the Compliance Team.

## Review states

Each object governed by a lifecycle rule has a review state. You can view all objects with pending or overdue review states on the **Events** > **Reviews** page. You can also view an individual object's current review state on the **Lifecycle** tab of the object's detail page.

| State        | Description                                                                            |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Pending**  | A review has been initiated and is waiting for reviewers.                              |
| **Overdue**  | The grace period has passed without the review being completed.                        |
| **Reviewed** | All required reviews have been received and the review is complete.                    |
| **Canceled** | The review was canceled, typically because the lifecycle rule was deleted or modified. |

### Review lifecycle

> An object's review state cycles through these values according to the following rules:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following steps illustrate the workflow for an object lifecycle review process:
```

1. When a lifecycle rule is created or when the interval since the last completed review has elapsed, the object enters the **Pending** review state and reviewers are notified.
2. Reviewers submit their reviews (with an optional note).
3. Once all requirements are met, the object transitions to the **Reviewed** state.
4. If the grace period passes without all requirements being met, the object becomes **Overdue** and reviewers receive an alert.
5. After the interval passes, a new review cycle begins and the object returns to the **Pending** state.

## Reviewer workflow

> For a reviewer (either a user set as an explicit reviewer or a member of a configured reviewer group), the review workflow is as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To review and approve an object and it's associated lifecyle rule, follow the steps below. A reviewer can be either a user set as an explicit reviewer or a member of a configured reviewer group.
```

| **Minimum reviewers**              | The minimum number of attestations required from reviewer group members.                                                                      |
| **Minimum reviewers is per group** | When enabled, the minimum number of reviewers is required from each reviewer group separately. When disabled, it's a total across all groups. |
| **Explicit reviewers**             | Individual users who must all attest to the review, in addition to the reviewer groups requirement.                                           |
| **Notification transports**        | How reviewers are notified about pending, overdue, and completed reviews.                                                                     |

### Reviewer requirements

A review is considered complete when all of the following conditions are met:

1. All explicit reviewers have attested.
2. The minimum number of attestations from reviewer group members has been reached (either per group or in total, depending on the setting).

For example, if a rule has:

- Two explicit reviewers (Alice and Bob)
- Two reviewer groups (Security Team and Compliance Team)
- Minimum reviewers set to 2

> - "Minimum reviewers is per group" enabled

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Min reviewers is per-group** enabled
```

Then the review requires attestations from: Alice, Bob, at least 2 members of the Security Team, and at least 2 members of the Compliance Team.

## Reviews

Reviews are automatically created when a lifecycle rule is due. You can view all open reviews on the **Events** > **Access Reviews** page.
You can access an individual object's current review on the **Lifecycle** tab of the object's detail page.

### Review states

| State        | Description                                                                                              |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Pending**  | The review has been initiated and is waiting for attestations.                                           |
| **Overdue**  | The grace period has passed without the review being completed. Reviewers receive an alert notification. |
| **Reviewed** | All required attestations have been received and the review is complete.                                 |
| **Canceled** | The review was canceled, typically because the lifecycle rule was deleted or modified.                   |

> ### Lifecycle

Reviewer 2: Those might not be the exact right words, but we need something more descriptive than just "Lifecycle".... :-)

> 

Reviewer 2: The following steps illustrate the workflow for an object lifecycle review process:
